Okay, so what we'll do is, I wanna
give you some time to go through and
follow the exact steps that I just did,
which was one,
identify where an input
validation needs to exist.
So we're talking a put,
we're talking a post.
Two, identify what the resource is,
so a product or an update.
The reason you've got to do that is
because you have to go to the schema to
understand what it is on that resource,
That you need to create or
that you can use to update, so
you know what validations to make, right?
And then lastly,
create an input validator or
many input validators for that route.
So remember, this is middleware, so
I can add as many of them as I want,
it doesn't matter,
I just gotta add a comma.
So you can add as many
of those as you want, or
you can put them in an array,
it doesn't matter.
It doesn't have to be one,
as long as they come after the route and
before the handler Let's just go ahead and
validate these routes.
So first thing I'm gonna do is,
I noticed that this piece
of code here,
where we get the validation results,
we check to see if the errors are there.
And if they are,
we send back a 400 with errors,
that's gonna be the same,
no matter what route.
I mean, there's nothing specific to
product in this piece of code anywhere.
It's just gonna be the same
no matter where you do this.
So I'm actually gonna turn this into
a middleware that we can use after our
validation middleware, so
I don't have to rewrite every single time.
So I'm gonna go into over here,
I'm gonna go into our modules,
I'm gonna make a new
file called middlewares.
Or middleware, I guess,
I don't know if that's plural, whatever.
And I'm gonna export, A new function here.
I'm gonna call it handleInputErrors,
I guess, or something like that.
And it's gonnaa be middleware.
Right, and all its gotta do is this,
it's gonna copy this code here,
bring it over, Import(Validation Result).
And if that's not the case,
then it'll just call next
to go on to the handler.
So now ,all I have to do is just add
this handleInputErrors middleware after
any of the input in middleware that I'm
going to write for any of the routes.
Again, this is just one
of the a million ways.
We're gonna talk about
error handling later,
that's probably gonna contradict this.
There's just so many different
ways on how to handle things and
they're all very flexible.
So this is just how I see it,
because I would hate to have to copy and
paste this so many times, and
then go back and like, actually,
I wanna send back a 402 for some reason.
And then I gotta go change 402 everywhere,
it would just suck to do that over and
over.
So I'm just gonna put it
in its own little thing.
All right, so
now I'm gonna go back to the router,
and I can get rid of this thing here.
And instead, I can say, handleErrorInputs
like that, and
it should do the same thing.
So I'm gonna give that a try,
just to make sure that that works, and
then we'll continue on.
So I'm gonna start my server.
Go back to Thunder Client,
Try to do this again,
and yeah, it still works,
everything still works the same.
So this is a great use case of middleware,
of just sitting before a handler,
trying to protect it.
Because the thing I'm always optimizing
for, the thing I'm always thinking about,
is how do I ensure that the handler
is only doing business logic and
nothing else?
I just don't want it to do anything else,
because once you actually start
writing big handlers, like,
this thing has to create a user.
And then it has to create a customer
on stripe, and then it has to subscribe
them to a subscription, and
then it has to send off analytics.
That handler is gonna get so beefy, the
last thing that I wanna do is like, and
you also gotta check for inputs,
and you also have to do a log, and
you also have to do, it just gets tedious.
And then, if you wanna change
how you report to analytics, but
you wrote it in 30 different handlers, we
have to change it in 30 different places.
Whereas if you wrote it in one middleware,
you only got to change it
in that one middleware.
Okay, so the next one would be a post for
a product.
So what do you need to create a product?
I don't know, let's see.
I think we need a name, and
we need a belongs to ID.
Okay, now, let me ask you this,
should the user send up
the user ID along with
a name that we will
associate this product with?
Should we trust the ID
that the user sends up as
the ID that we associate
this product with, why not?
>> Because they can send anything,
they can send my ID.
>> Right, they can send anyone's ID.
>> Never trust the user.
>> Right, not so, right,
we don't want them to send us an ID.
The ID that we're gonna assign to this
product is the ID of the signed in user,
which is, remember, we already have,
this is the power of middleware,
we already have a middleware
that does that, right?
If we go to auth,
that's what this protect middleware does,
It figures out who is the user
that's making the request,
right, and
it attaches it here to req.user.
So if we needed to know what ID to
add to the product, it would be on
req.user.id and not req.body.id,
because we can't trust that ID.
That can be any ID, and
if we just assign that to the product,
some user is now creating products for
another user.
I don't know why they would do that,
but that's what would happen.
Because we have a multitenant database,
we have to be very careful about whose
information we're touching and ensuring
that it's scoped to the signed in user.
So when it comes to user information,
only ever trust this user.
Don't trust the user that
information that they're sending up,
cuz you just don't know.
Yeah, so that was a tricky one, but
it comes with lots of mistakes.
[LAUGH] I remember I made this product one
time that did not do things like that.
And people were just changing each other's
stuff all the time, and I was like,
I have no idea what's going on,
cuz I just didn't do those checks.
And yeah, it was very, very wild.
Okay, so for that, just means we won't
be doing a check for belongs to, that's
not something we wanna check for, because
we don't want you seeing that at all.
In fact, we could probably do a check
that says, if you do send it,
throw an error, but we're not
gonna check for that, so instead,
we're just really just
gonna use the same thing.
There's a name and
handleInputErrors, so we'll do that.
And then we'll keep moving for updates.
So for update, we gotta put, update's a
little more sophisticated than a product,
cuz it has a title, a body, Status,
well, status is default, so
I guess that's not required at least.
And then version and asset are also not
required, and then it has a product ID.
Now, should we trust the product
ID that a user would send up to
associate with this update?
That's a trick questions, seeing how I
just talked about how not to trust users.
>> We can, but we need to check whether
this product belongs to that user or not.
>> Exactly, yes,
we can trust it only if we verify that
the product ID that they sent
up actually belongs to the user
that is making the request,
and then we can associate it.
Because we actually don't have
any other place to get the ID, so
you would have to give it to us.
We don't know what product
you wanna assign this to.
So yeah, we can, but
then we also have to verify.
So it's just those little
things that have to happen.
And this is why I try to keep
the handlers very light,
because you have to do all
this stuff inside of them.
And the last thing you wanna do is,
I'm also checking to see
if they sent me a field.
So yeah, I see you've been in
the trenches before [LAUGH].
>> I already burned my fingers.
>> Right, so for put.
On update, we want, yeah, so
all the things you can update
on an update would be a title,
a body, a status, a version, an asset.
Probably not gonna let you update
the product, because an update
belongs to a product, why would it
belong to another product eventually?
That's kinda weird.
I can't even think of a UI that would say,
change, no, that wouldn't even make sense.
So we won't add that to update.
So let's go back to our route here,
and let's do that.
So I'm gonna say body,
Title, sorry, did I get rid of that?
There we go.
Body, title, we have, I think there's
an exist, yeah, so you could do exist.
But I think we want these to be optional,
so body isOptional.
I think there's optional by default.
No, there it is, optional, there we go.
Okay, so we got that,
and then we have body,
Body, I was like, I know it's called
something, and then that's also optional.
And then we have, Body.
What was the other one?
Status, version, and asset.
Status,
Version, And asset.
Well, I guess asset would be different,
because this will be an image upload and
you wouldn't know the URL for it, so
maybe not, that's something different,
it's like, you're gonna upload something.
Okay, this thing is super long,
let me just bring this
on to the next slide.
Okay, and that's still, there we go.
So as you see, this is just getting long.
This is why, as we said earlier, you
probably wanna put this in another file or
something like that.
So it's not just for
the same thing of maintaining
your handlers and keeping them.
You probably want your routes
to just to do route stuff and
not have all this fluffy
middleware stuff hanging around.
So maybe you would put this
somewhere else in input.
It's separate inputs file and
you just import them in,
had to do that before, yes.
>> With status, don't we have to
validate to make sure it's one of
the options provided, or
do we let [INAUDIBLE] handle that?
>> That was literally just about to
ask that question, great question.
I was gonna ask if anyone handled that
with status being an enum or not.
Anyone figured out how to only
choose one of the different
types of statuses that's possible for
the update,
which in this case will be IN_PROGRESS,
SHIPPED, or DEPRECATED?
No, no one tried it.
Well, I do believe that there is a .one,
it's oneOf, I believe.
Pretty sure, there's, let's see,
pretty sure there's a .one,
Or, I'm sorry, I think it's you
gotta do oneOf first, there we go.
So oneOf, and then you can say body.
Let me see, what's the names of them?
There we go, IN_PROGRESS, SHIPPED.
PROGRESS, you gotta put an array,
I'm sorry, there we go.
So (IN_PROGRESS), body, (SHIPPED) and
then body, what was the last one,
DEPRECATED, yeah.
So yeah, that's how you would say that,
so it would just be one of these.
>> This'll think optional's a method call?
>> Is it?
Yeah, I guess that makes sense,
is you could do chaining.
>> One last note, version,
line 31, missing the S.
>> For the oneOfs,
do we still have to refer to the status?
>> Yeah, so I think the way
that it works is you can say,
status first like this, and
then comma oneOf, there we go.
As you can see, this can get pretty crazy.
The more complicated these get,
the more you can just, they have like a,
we can just write a schema,
and you can just check it
against an entire schema if it starts
to get too complicated like this.
So that's another way to do it as well,
thought about doing it that way, but for
the most part, it's an overkill.
Okay, and then for post, it's pretty
much the same thing, except for
some of these things just aren't optional,
so
I'm just gonna just copy this whole thing.
And, Can you go to the next line?
Yeah, it's almost the same thing,
except for, yeah, the title is definitely
not optional, you have to give us a title,
which is gonna be exists.
And you have to give us
a body which exists.
You can say isString too if
you wanna go all in on it.
There's really no limit to it.
For the status,
you don't have to give us that,
because we do a default one,
so that's fine.
The version is also default, so
I think that's fine as well,
and, What's that?
Okay, I will look into that.
Yeah, I think we're fine with
just these two here on that.
And then for our updatepoint,
I figured those.
We just need a name and a description,
For the update, so let's do that.
So for put on an update,
we could just say, body,
Name, we do our optional, isString if
you really wanna get all that in there,
And then body., I'm sorry, description,
Dot optional().isString.
And let me break these
down on multiple lines
Okay, and then lastly, for creating
an updatepoint, We'll just do this.
Pretty much mostly the same,
the only difference is,
you would have to send up the update ID,
so
body (updateId).exists().isString.
And these are not optional anymore.
There we go.
I actually think there's
a better way to do oneOf, and
I wanna look it up cuz it bother me
>> Chat,
reporting a couple of errors with oneOf.
>> Yeah.
>> And if you check the documentation
on it, there's a check method.
>> I guess you don't
even really need oneOf,
that's what I was trying to figure out.
I think you could just do,
body(status).isIn.
And then you can do that.
So it's gotta be one of these,
I misspelt status.
Like this.
So you say IN_PROGRESS, SHIPPED,
DEPRECATED.
I guess it's how I've always done it.
The oneOf thing, pretty cool,
but never really used that one.